README.md, before:

# NAME

Git::Background - use Git commands with [Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Future)

# VERSION

Version 0.003

# SYNOPSIS

    use Git::Background 0.002;

    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s');
    my @status = $future->stdout;

    my $future = Git::Background->run('status', '-s', { dir => $dir });
    my @status = $future->stdout;

# USAGE

## new( \[DIR\], \[ARGS\] )

Creates and returns a new `Git::Background` object. If you specify the
`dir` positional argument, or use the `dir` argument in the args hash
the directory is passed as `cwd` option to [Proc::Background](https://metacpan.org/pod/Proc%3A%3ABackground) causing it
to change into that directory before running the Git command.

Both, the `dir` positional argument and the args hash are optional. An
exception is thrown if you specify both.

    my $git = Git::Background->new;
    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $git = Git::Background->new( { dir => $dir, fatal => 0 } );
    my $git = Git::Background->new( $dir, { fatal => 0 } );

`new` either returns a valid `Git::Background` object or throws an
exception.

The following options can be passed in the args hash to new. They are used
as defaults for calls to `run`.

### dir

This will be passed as `cwd` argument to [Proc::Background](https://metacpan.org/pod/Proc%3A%3ABackground) whenever you
call `run`. If you don't specify a `dir` all Git commands are executed in
whatever the current working directory is when you call `run`.

### fatal

Enabled by default. The `fatal` option controls if
["await" in Git::Background::Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ABackground%3A%3AFuture#await) returns a failed `Future` when Git returns a
non-zero return code.

Please not that ["await" in Git::Background::Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ABackground%3A%3AFuture#await) always returns a failed
`Future` if Git returns 128 (fatal Git error) or 129 (Git usage error)
regardless of `fatal`. And a failed `Future` is returned if another error
happens, e.g. if the output from Git cannot be read.

### git

The Git command used to run. This defaults to `git` and lets
[Proc::Background](https://metacpan.org/pod/Proc%3A%3ABackground) work its magic to find the binary on your platform.

This can be either a string,

    my $git = Git::Background->new( { git => '/opt/git/bin/git' } );

or an array ref.

    my $git = Git::Background->new({
        git => [ qw( /usr/bin/sudo -u nobody git ) ],
    });

## run( @CMD, \[ARGS\] )

This runs the specified Git command in the background by passing it on to
`Git::Background`. The last argument can be an argument hash that takes the
same arguments as `new`.

    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s', { fatal => 0 } );

    if ( $future->await->is_failed ) {
        say q{Unable to run 'git status -s'};
    }
    else {
        my @status = $future->stdout;
    }

The call returns a [Git::Background::Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ABackground%3A%3AFuture) and the Git command runs in its
own process. All output produced by Git is redirected to a [File::Temp](https://metacpan.org/pod/File%3A%3ATemp)
temporary file.

`Proc::Background` is run with `autoterminate` set, which will kill the
Git process if the future is destroyed.

## version( \[ARGS\] )

Returns the version of the used Git binary or undef if no Git command was
found. This call uses the same, optional, argument hash as `run`. The call
is wrapped in an eval which ensures that this method never throws an error
and can be used to check if a Git is available.

    my $version = Git::Background->version;
    if ( !defined $version ) {
        say "No Git binary found.";
    }
    else {
        say "You have Git version $version";
    }

# EXAMPLES

## Example 1 Clone a repository

Cloning a repository is a bit special as it's the only Git command that
cannot be run in a workspace and the target directory must not exist.

There are two ways to use a `Git::Background` object without the workspace
directory:

    my $future = Git::Background->run('clone', $url, $dir);
    $future->get;

    # later, use a new object for working with the cloned repository
    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s');
    my @stdout = $future->stdout;

Alternatively you can overwrite the directory for the call to clone:

    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('clone', $url, $dir, { dir => undef });
    $future->get;

    # then use the same object for working with the cloned repository
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s');
    my @dstdout = $future->stdout;

# SEE ALSO

[Git::Repository](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ARepository), [Git::Wrapper](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3AWrapper), [Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Future)

# SUPPORT

## Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at [https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background/issues](https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background/issues).
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

## Source Code

This is open source software. The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

[https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background](https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background)

    git clone https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background.git

# AUTHOR

Sven Kirmess <sven.kirmess@kzone.ch>

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2022 by Sven Kirmess.

This is free software, licensed under:

    The (two-clause) FreeBSD License

Commit message:

run() throws an error if it is run in void context

README.md, after:

# NAME

Git::Background - use Git commands with [Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Future)

# VERSION

Version 0.003

# SYNOPSIS

    use Git::Background 0.002;

    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s');
    my @status = $future->stdout;

    my $future = Git::Background->run('status', '-s', { dir => $dir });
    my @status = $future->stdout;

# USAGE

## new( \[DIR\], \[ARGS\] )

Creates and returns a new `Git::Background` object. If you specify the
`dir` positional argument, or use the `dir` argument in the args hash
the directory is passed as `cwd` option to [Proc::Background](https://metacpan.org/pod/Proc%3A%3ABackground) causing it
to change into that directory before running the Git command.

Both, the `dir` positional argument and the args hash are optional. An
exception is thrown if you specify both.

    my $git = Git::Background->new;
    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $git = Git::Background->new( { dir => $dir, fatal => 0 } );
    my $git = Git::Background->new( $dir, { fatal => 0 } );

`new` either returns a valid `Git::Background` object or throws an
exception.

The following options can be passed in the args hash to new. They are used
as defaults for calls to `run`.

### dir

This will be passed as `cwd` argument to [Proc::Background](https://metacpan.org/pod/Proc%3A%3ABackground) whenever you
call `run`. If you don't specify a `dir` all Git commands are executed in
whatever the current working directory is when you call `run`.

### fatal

Enabled by default. The `fatal` option controls if
["await" in Git::Background::Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ABackground%3A%3AFuture#await) returns a failed `Future` when Git returns a
non-zero return code.

Please not that ["await" in Git::Background::Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ABackground%3A%3AFuture#await) always returns a failed
`Future` if Git returns 128 (fatal Git error) or 129 (Git usage error)
regardless of `fatal`. And a failed `Future` is returned if another error
happens, e.g. if the output from Git cannot be read.

### git

The Git command used to run. This defaults to `git` and lets
[Proc::Background](https://metacpan.org/pod/Proc%3A%3ABackground) work its magic to find the binary on your platform.

This can be either a string,

    my $git = Git::Background->new( { git => '/opt/git/bin/git' } );

or an array ref.

    my $git = Git::Background->new({
        git => [ qw( /usr/bin/sudo -u nobody git ) ],
    });

## run( @CMD, \[ARGS\] )

This runs the specified Git command in the background by passing it on to
`Git::Background`. The last argument can be an argument hash that takes the
same arguments as `new`.

    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s', { fatal => 0 } );

    if ( $future->await->is_failed ) {
        say q{Unable to run 'git status -s'};
    }
    else {
        my @status = $future->stdout;
    }

The call returns a [Git::Background::Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ABackground%3A%3AFuture) and the Git command runs in its
own process. All output produced by Git is redirected to a [File::Temp](https://metacpan.org/pod/File%3A%3ATemp)
temporary file.

`Proc::Background` is run with `autoterminate` set, which will kill the
Git process if the future is destroyed.

Since version 0.004 `run` `croaks` if it gets called in void context.

## version( \[ARGS\] )

Returns the version of the used Git binary or undef if no Git command was
found. This call uses the same, optional, argument hash as `run`. The call
is wrapped in an eval which ensures that this method never throws an error
and can be used to check if a Git is available.

    my $version = Git::Background->version;
    if ( !defined $version ) {
        say "No Git binary found.";
    }
    else {
        say "You have Git version $version";
    }

# EXAMPLES

## Example 1 Clone a repository

Cloning a repository is a bit special as it's the only Git command that
cannot be run in a workspace and the target directory must not exist.

There are two ways to use a `Git::Background` object without the workspace
directory:

    my $future = Git::Background->run('clone', $url, $dir);
    $future->get;

    # later, use a new object for working with the cloned repository
    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s');
    my @stdout = $future->stdout;

Alternatively you can overwrite the directory for the call to clone:

    my $git = Git::Background->new($dir);
    my $future = $git->run('clone', $url, $dir, { dir => undef });
    $future->get;

    # then use the same object for working with the cloned repository
    my $future = $git->run('status', '-s');
    my @dstdout = $future->stdout;

# SEE ALSO

[Git::Repository](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3ARepository), [Git::Wrapper](https://metacpan.org/pod/Git%3A%3AWrapper), [Future](https://metacpan.org/pod/Future)

# SUPPORT

## Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at [https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background/issues](https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background/issues).
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

## Source Code

This is open source software. The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

[https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background](https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background)

    git clone https://github.com/skirmess/Git-Background.git

# AUTHOR

Sven Kirmess <sven.kirmess@kzone.ch>

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021-2022 by Sven Kirmess.

This is free software, licensed under:

    The (two-clause) FreeBSD License
